events/office-hours/README.md, before:

# The AI Alliance Office Hours

Welcome to the AI Alliance Office Hours. See below for upcoming sessions and past recordings. 

<!-- <img src="assets/qrcode_the-ai-alliance.github.io.png" width="400px"> -->

## About

Office Hours are held every week, offering engaging talks and live Q&A sessions with experts from Alliance projects and technologies. Join us for insights, ask questions, and connect with innovators at the forefront of AI development.

###  Americas

🗓️ : **Every Thursday**  
⏰ : **9 am Pacific | 11 am Central | 12 pm Eastern | 5pm GMT**

[Sign up here](https://events.thealliance.ai/ai-alliance-office-hours) 

###  Asia-Pacific

Coming soon.

## Events

(latest first)

- **2025-May-22:** Knowledge Graphs for Enterprise AI
- **2025-May-15:** Model and Agent Evaluation with Unitxt
- **2025-May-8:** GneissWeb: Preparing High Quality Data for LLMs at Scale
- **2025-May-1:** Chat with your website using an LLM
- **2025-Apr-24:** Introducing gofannon
- **2025-Apr-17:** AI Red-Teaming: Stress Testing AI Systems for Safety & Reliability
- **2025-Apr-10:** [Simplifying DPK Pipeline Creation with Agentic Workflows](2025-04-10__dpk-pipeline-with-agentic-workflows.md)
- **2025-Apr-03:** [Hyper Parameter Optimization for Computer Vision using TerraTorch](2025-04-03__terratorch.md)
- **2025-Mar-27:** [Workshop: Preparing High Quality Datasets with Data Prep Kit](2025-03-27__high-quality-dataset-with-dpk.md)
- **2025-Mar-20:** [Workshop: Hands on with Data Prep Kit](2025-03-20__data-prep-kit-hands-on.md)
- **2025-Mar-13:** [Workshop: Hands on with Docling](2025-03-13__docling-hands-on.md)
- **2025-Mar-06:** [Introducing GneissWeb -  a state-of-the-art LLM pre-training dataset](2025-03-06__gneissweb.md)
- **2025-Feb-27:** [Review of data preparation tools and Q&A](2025-02-27__data-prep-review.md)
- **2025-Feb-20:** [How to contribute to an open source project](2025-02-20__contributing-open-source.md)
- **2025-Feb-13:** [Open source RAG pipeline using Data Prep Kit + Milvus + Granite](2025-02-13__RAG-dataprepkit-milvus-granite.md)
- **2025-Feb-06:** [Data preparation using Data Prep Kit](2025-02-06__data-prep-kit.md)
- **2025-Jan-30:** [Data processing using Docling](2025-01-30__docling.md)

Commit message:

added welcome to community at 8:30 am

events/office-hours/README.md, after:

# AI Alliance Community Office Hours

Welcome to the AI Alliance Community Office Hours where we offer technical talks from member of our community. See below for upcoming sessions and past recordings. 

<!-- <img src="assets/qrcode_the-ai-alliance.github.io.png" width="400px"> -->

## About

Community Office Hours are held every week, offering engaging talks and live Q&A sessions with experts from Alliance projects and technologies. Join us for insights, ask questions, and connect with innovators at the forefront of AI development.

###  Americas

🗓️ : **Every Thursday**  
- **Welcome new members : 8:30 am Pacific | 10:30 am Central | 11:30 am Eastern | 4:30 pm GMT**
- **Office Hours : 9:00 am Pacific | 11:00 am Central | 12:00 pm Eastern | 5:00 pm GMT**

[Sign up here](https://events.thealliance.ai/ai-alliance-office-hours) 

## Events

(latest first)

- **2025-May-22:** Knowledge Graphs for Enterprise AI
- **2025-May-15:** Model and Agent Evaluation with Unitxt
- **2025-May-8:** GneissWeb: Preparing High Quality Data for LLMs at Scale
- **2025-May-1:** Chat with your website using an LLM
- **2025-Apr-24:** Introducing gofannon
- **2025-Apr-17:** AI Red-Teaming: Stress Testing AI Systems for Safety & Reliability
- **2025-Apr-10:** [Simplifying DPK Pipeline Creation with Agentic Workflows](2025-04-10__dpk-pipeline-with-agentic-workflows.md)
- **2025-Apr-03:** [Hyper Parameter Optimization for Computer Vision using TerraTorch](2025-04-03__terratorch.md)
- **2025-Mar-27:** [Workshop: Preparing High Quality Datasets with Data Prep Kit](2025-03-27__high-quality-dataset-with-dpk.md)
- **2025-Mar-20:** [Workshop: Hands on with Data Prep Kit](2025-03-20__data-prep-kit-hands-on.md)
- **2025-Mar-13:** [Workshop: Hands on with Docling](2025-03-13__docling-hands-on.md)
- **2025-Mar-06:** [Introducing GneissWeb -  a state-of-the-art LLM pre-training dataset](2025-03-06__gneissweb.md)
- **2025-Feb-27:** [Review of data preparation tools and Q&A](2025-02-27__data-prep-review.md)
- **2025-Feb-20:** [How to contribute to an open source project](2025-02-20__contributing-open-source.md)
- **2025-Feb-13:** [Open source RAG pipeline using Data Prep Kit + Milvus + Granite](2025-02-13__RAG-dataprepkit-milvus-granite.md)
- **2025-Feb-06:** [Data preparation using Data Prep Kit](2025-02-06__data-prep-kit.md)
- **2025-Jan-30:** [Data processing using Docling](2025-01-30__docling.md)
